Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lopez, and
today I'm joined by Doctor Todd May. He's professor
of philosophy at Warren Wilson College, and we're focusing
on his book Should We Go Extinct? A Philosophical
dilemma for our unbearable time. So, Todd, welcome to
the show. It's a big pleasure to everyone.
Uh, THANKS, Ricardo. It's an honor to be here.
So should we go extinct? Could you explain a
little bit better what is the precise question you
try to answer in your book?
Sure. uh, uh, LET me put it this way,
Ricardo. It's not the question I'm trying to answer,
it's the question I'm trying to address and deal
with, right? So the, what I wanna do is
I want to raise the question, start a conversation.
Around the question itself, but also around the second
question, the one that appears at the end of
the book, which is what can we do to
justify ourselves so that morally it would be better
for us not to go extinct. So what the
book is trying to do is grapple with that,
that question. Ask, all right, what is it that
we bring to the planet that other species can't
bring or they at least can't bring it to
the same extent. Uh, WHAT is it that we're
doing to the planet, that's, that's harmful, that it
would be better if we weren't here to do
it. And then finally, given that balance or imbalance,
how can we act in such ways as to
justify our continuing to be here morally?
Right. And in general terms, how would you frame
the debate here between people who think that we
should continue to exist and the ones who think
that the world would be better off without this?
Yeah, the, um, the idea, I think, is that
there are those who, who think for two different
sets of reasons, Ricardo and let me get into
each of them. That we ought to go extinct.
So one set, and this is probably the dominant
set of people who think we should go extinct,
think that human life is just unhappy, uh, that
it's, it's bad for humans to be here, that
our lives aren't good enough, worthwhile enough, meaningful enough
for us to continue to propagate ourselves, right? The
other side of that, um, are people who think
because of the damage we do to the planet.
That we ought not to continue to exist. It's
that second side that I'm dealing with. I argue
in the book a bit that it, that I,
I'm not on board with the idea that for
most of us, our human lives are not worth
living. Uh, SO there's that's that side of it
and the the reasons that The, the reasons that
the second group gives are reasons that I canvas
and add to in the book. The, the, uh,
the cruelty of factory farming, uh, the contribution to
the climate crisis, deforestation, scientific testing, things like that.
Right. On the other side of it, there are
those who think it would just be a terrible
tragedy, uh, and one that, that can't be made
up in in any way. If we were to
go extinct. And I talk about some of those
reasons in the book as well, uh, often using
authors that aren't thinking about extinction, but whose arguments
would be relevant to the issue of extinction. Mhm.
Uh, HOW about the ones, the people who just
don't care either way, whether we go extinct or
not, for example, do the nihilists also play a
role in this debate or not?
Uh, um, I, it's a good question. Nobody's ever
asked me that one. I, I, I suppose I
could, I could go meddle with this and say,
I don't care what the nihilists think. But, but,
uh, I, I think I, I don't see a
role for them in the sense that if you
don't care one way or the other about human
existence, the, the, the question isn't gonna grip, get
a grip on you. Mhm.
And when talking about extinction, what kinds of extinction
are we considering here? I mean, how would we
go extinct?
Good. Yeah, this, uh, I, I talk about this
a little bit in the book. So there are
various ways in which you can imagine humans going
extinct. One would be that the climate crisis comes
and takes us all, right? Uh, NOW, having, I,
I live in Asheville, North Carolina, which was devastated
by a hurricane, uh. As you probably know, even
as we speak, there are fires raging out of
control in Los Angeles. So the idea that the
climate crisis might be such that humans go extinct
or nearly extinct, uh, is one that I think
is on the table and that worries people. I
don't think that the climate crisis itself would make
people go extinct, but although it could radically reduce
the population. Uh, THEN there is the specter of
nuclear war, right? That's one that could actually prompt
extinction one way or the other. Uh. Neither of
those. ARE ones that I'm thinking about when I
think about the issue of extinction. The, the image
that I have, and I'll explain why. The image
that I have is kind of what what some
people call a children of men scenario, right? Based
on the book and the film, uh, that considers
what it would be like if all of a
sudden we we, we became infertile. Uh, WE couldn't
reproduce. Uh, THAT, that scenario to try to think
this issue through. WOULD be a more likely one.
The reason being that the climate crisis and nuclear
war are going to devastate not simply us, but
the fellow creatures with whom I'm about whom I'm
thinking, right, in terms of human cruelty. But a
children or men scenario doesn't do that, right? What
it does is it it allows humans to go
extinct uh without other animals necessarily going extinct. Of
course, our extinction would have effects on other animals,
but it won't necessarily make them go extinct.
Mhm. But isn't it inevitable that somewhere in the
future humanity will go extinct sooner or later, or
one way or the other?
Oh yeah, we're we're definitely gonna go extinct. Look,
if nothing else, Ricardo, but the sun's gonna expand
and then some however many years that it it
does that, uh, it's gonna be too hot for
for human life and probably most life on the
planet. So yeah, we will go extinct. The question
for me is, should we do that sooner rather
than later? Is the harm that we're bringing to
the planet, such that we should, that it would
be morally incumbent upon us to go extinct. That's
the question that I'm raising, right? Now, let me
say a a little bit about that as well.
It's a question I'm raising. Do I think that
we're all gonna get together and think, hey, we're
really not doing good stuff for the planet, we
should go extinct. No. Right, it, it, it that's
not. What's likely to happen. So resolves itself not
into a question of what we are likely to
do, but what we are morally obliged to do.
Uh, AND if we're causing more harm collectively, right,
then in fact justifies our existence, then what we
ought to do is go extinct. But now let
me take this one more step, record if that's
OK. The The idea is this. If we were
to look upon ourselves and think, it might not
even be justified for us to be here. The
next question would be not necessarily, well, should maybe
we should go extinct then, but what can we
do in order to justify our being here? In
other words, we, we were faced with what I
call at one point, not in the book, but
elsewhere, the, the prospect of a moral hanging, right,
right, you know, Samuel Johnson said that uh when
a person's facing a hanging in two weeks, it
focuses their mind admirably. But if we were to
think to ourselves, maybe we shouldn't even be justified,
maybe we're not even justified in being here. Then
that should focus our mind on what we should
do to be justified, to continue ourselves.
Right. And looking at the current state of the
world, what would you say are the aspects that
are the most worth considering when evaluating such a,
a question as to whether we should go extinct
or not?
Good. On, on both sides, Ricardo? Yes. OK. So,
on the side for continuing. There are things that
we bring to the planet that other, uh, other
species, other animals cannot bring, or at least they
can't bring it to the same extent, right? Uh,
AND I talked about several things. One is the
levels of happiness that humans can generate, right? And
a happier planet is better than a less happy
planet. So there are dimensions of happiness that we
have. We, we have projects that we can extend
into the future, recognizing certain relationships that will extend
into the future. All of these can bring us
kinds of happiness, dimensions of happiness that non-human animals
aren't capable of nearly to the extent that we
are. That's one thing, right? Another thing. Is that
we bring to the planet the creation of art,
right, and science, and not only the creation of
art and science, but the appreciation of art and
science, and other things like sports. And I think
most of us think that if these things art,
science, sports and whatnot, were to disappear from the
planet. That that would be a loss for the
planet, that the planet would in some ways, ways
be impoverished if we, we, if, if the planet
would be impoverished if that were no longer aspects
of the planet, right? So there are those two
things, right. A third element is one that's brought
up by Samuel Scheffler, right, uh, in his book
Deathin its Afterlives. Uh, HE says, look, one of
the things that Humans That give humans meaningfulness in
their lives, is the sense that whatever they're doing,
there will be other human beings that will continue
it, or they will appreciate it, or, or that
will be able, but somehow to take it up,
right? And if we were to go extinct, That
wouldn't be there. Uh, SO a lot for Scheffler,
a lot of what makes our lives meaningful is
the thought that not just our kids will continue,
but there there will be others that will continue
to take up everything from our research to the
guy who owns this a grocery store down the
block, and other people will continue to shop there.
So all of those things are on, we could
say the plus side. On, on the minus side,
there is, and the, the thing that I talk
about the most in the book, factory farming. Uh,
FACTORY farming creates endless cruelty for billions of animals,
right? Uh, I, I don't have the, the, the
book has the numbers. I don't have the numbers
at my fingertips, but I'm, I'm gonna give myself
a pass because I'm, I'm a philosopher, and you
know how we are with facts. We're not so
great with facts. So, uh, uh, but the book,
uh, the book details, so for instance, A US
citizen who lives, say, 70 some years, uh, is
going to wind up eating hundreds, but most, most
Americans are gonna wind up eating, you know, hundreds
of animals that we're gonna spend their lives, torture
chickens, cows, pig pigs, uh, and that's going to
create all kinds of suffering, right? Simply so that
we can have food that's cheap and tastes good.
Uh, WE also engaged in deforestation in, in good
part in order, right, to raise these animals, and
that Destroys the lives of any number of our
fellow creatures. Uh, WE, the climate crisis, which I've
mentioned before, destroys the lives of fellow creatures. A
lot of scientific testing is done in in ways
that A create a lot of suffering, and B,
just don't even need to be done. So, all
of these elements are elements in which we contribute
to the suffering of our fellow creatures, and I'll
mention one other thing, uh, and this is more
controversial, but it's sort of, I guess, personal for
me, that we, we destroy ecosystems that have their
own network set networks of lives and, and their
own beauty. So I live in western North Carolina
in the mouths. And to me, I wake up
in the morning, I, I can see the mountains.
If we were to sort of pave them over
and and destroy them, right? That seems to me
to be a loss, not simply in the creation
of suffering for the animals that live there, but
for the ecosystem itself, which to me has a
sort of a a beauty and integrity that's worth
preserving. And we're In our expansion, we're undermining a
lot of that.
So, uh, but does it matter if our extinction
occurs voluntarily or involuntarily?
It, it goes back, Ricardo, to Actually how we
go extinct. So, if we were If we were
to go extinct voluntarily, what that would mean is
that we would be taking the decision. That we
shouldn't continue the species, that that. What we're doing
is creating enough harm that we should no longer
propagate ourselves. That would be, that would leave our
own agency, right? But in any way that we
would go extinct involuntarily undermines our agency. So it
undermines an aspect of our own moral character, right?
Now, Regard having said that, we can, we can
also divide into different types of different ways of
going extinct. So if we go extinct in the
children and men scenario, right, that's involuntarily and will
cause suffering to us, uh, outside or beyond our
ability to be able to do anything about it.
If we were to go extinct, so for instance,
through a nuclear holocaust, right, that would wind up
not simply. Uh, PREVENTING us from propagating further species,
but also ending the lives of people who are
currently here. And one of the things in the
book I try to do is say there's a
real difference between going extinct in the sense of
not, not creating further generations, because the not creating
further generations doesn't stop anybody in particular from being
here, right? Because there's nobody, like, there's nobody's waiting
in the wings to get born. So if we
go extinct in that sense by not propagating, right,
then that doesn't bring harm to anybody in particular
who would otherwise be here. But through something like
uh uh a nuclear holocaust, that, what that does
is end the lives of people who are here,
and that's a whole different issue.
Mhm. But, uh, among the, the arguments that you
presented there in my previous question when I asked
you about the, the arguments that people put forth
when, when it comes to defending our continuing to
exist, uh our existence, uh, what would you say
are the best ones or the most compelling ones?
I'll give you my personal view, OK, uh, um,
because there are philosophers right away who are gonna
disagree. I think the argument about the loss of
art and the loss of uh of science and
the loss of the ability to appreciate those, that
to me is the most compelling one. Right. Now,
no utilitarian is gonna agree with me on that.
The utility utilitarians gonna say to me, it's happiness.
We lose happiness, right? And that's the problem. Uh,
AND I, I can see why they would say
that from their perspective. Uh, BUT there seems to
me, uh, in losing science, uh, and in losing
art and sports and these various practices, it seems
to me that we're not losing some quantity of
happiness that other animals might possess, but to a
lesser degree. We're losing whole dimensions. Of life, and
that losing of dimensions of life seems to me
more deeply tragic than just less happiness. Mhm.
But, uh, I mean, when it comes to the
values that humanity brings into the world, there is
one particular kind of argument here that perhaps for
me it's a little bit harder to understand. That
is when people argue that the universe itself would
lose value if humanity went extinct. I mean, could,
could you explain what that means exactly and do
you agree with that kind of argument?
Yeah, uh, I, I talk about this somewhat in
the book. Uh, IF you said the universe would
lose value, it makes it sound as though it's
going to be some loss that the universe is
going to regret, right? But the universe doesn't regret
because that's not the kinds of things universes do,
right? So, so the question then becomes pressing in
the way that you've asked it. Uh, AND the
way I put it is this. If we were
no longer here. That wouldn't be a loss for
any any of the other animals that are here,
right? Nobody would experience that loss. So the question
is, in what sense is it a loss? And
the only place from where it can be a
loss is from our perspective, from our view of
what, what creates richness, what creates richness on the
planets, right, in the world. So, for us to
look and say a planet without science and art
and sports, etc. IS impoverished, is to take a
a human perspective. And say, from the perspective that
we occupy, that seems an impoverishment. Now, if we
weren't here, there would be nobody to feel the
impoverishment, but we are here. And as we are
here, and the only uh As we are here
and. Let me start that sentence again. OK. Uh,
AS we are the only ones who can judge
this from the perspective that we take, there isn't
some other place called the universe that can make
judgment on this, right? We can make judgment on
this. And making judgment on this, we use our
values. And from our values, it would be a
loss for there not to be science and arts,
right, sports, etc. Mhm.
But, but I mean, objectively speaking, it wouldn't be
a loss for the universe itself,
right? Yeah, here's the word objective, Ricardo, and you
know what happens to philosophers when the word objective
comes around, right? Um. It would It would be
objectively a loss in the sense that if we
think of objectivities as what are the, where the
the best reasons go, then it seems to me
the best reasons go toward it would be a
loss not to have these kinds of practices. But
The best reasons are reasons that we give ourselves,
right? But there's no other place for reasons to
come up from the place that we give ourselves.
So if we think of objectivity as outside of
the humans, right? The point of view of the
universe, right? I would say that there, that objectively,
there is no particular loss. But on the other
hand, it's not clear to me there is anything
like objective, objectivity, right? If there's, if objectivity comes
from the best reasons one can offer for a
position, then, in fact, it would be a loss
because those best reasons are reasons that we give
ourselves and one another.
Right. So there is also another kind of question
important to address here that has not so much
to do with the good that humanity supposedly brings
to the world, but as to whether life itself
is even worth living or if we take a
step further, worth starting. So what do you think
about antenatalism?
Yes, uh, the If I take antenatalism, not as
the view that humans should go extinct because of
what we're doing to other creatures or to to
ecosystems, but antenatalism as the view that it's bad
to bring people into the world because their lives
are not going to be worthwhile, right? Uh, AND
the The I think the probably most well-known proponent
of that was David Benatar, right? And with his
book, Better Never to Have Been Born. Uh, AND
his one of his arguments is that we tend
to We tend to have a misplaced view of
how good our existence is. We're Pollyannaish about it,
right? Uh, WE, we justify our, the worthwhileness of
our life to ourselves because it would be too
painful not to. And if you add up With
the pain and suffering. That humans uh experience and
the goodness that they have, the ledger is gonna
come out the wrong way. Uh, I'm not terribly
comfortable with that argument, and I'm not terribly comfortable
for two reasons, right? One is, If we were
to judge. Or to the extent that we judge,
that the pain and suffering is worth it, right?
That seems to me a point to take seriously.
I'm not sure that that's an illusion, right? That's
an evaluation. And I, I would like to take
that evaluation for what it is. Yes, I've lived
this life. It's involved, a lot of pain and
suffering, but what I have gone through is such
that it makes it worth it. Uh, I, I
don't see that as Pollyannaish necessarily, maybe for some
people, but it, um, but I don't, but I
think that it, it might well be a considered
judgment and assessment that people have. That's on the
one side, right? But on the other side. That
discussion really has a lot to do with the
happiness of human lives, right? And I've written elsewhere
that there are ways for lives to be meaningful.
Without necessarily being happy, but that there are various
ways in which our lives can uh can unfold,
uh, in accordance with, say, themes of adventurousness or
intensity, or spontaneity, or curiosity, and that that can
give a sense of meaningfulness to a life that
isn't on the scale of am I happy or
am I not happy, but is this a worthwhile
life for me to be living? Uh, AND if
you, if you pull those together, that, that I
think we're better sources of evaluation of our lives
than people like Benatar seem to think, and that
there are other dimensions that can lend with wildness
to a human life that don't resolve into things
like happiness or objective list theories, etc. ETC. THEN
I think it becomes harder to maintain an antenatalist
position. Mhm.
And when it comes to the harms that we
bring to the world that you mentioned earlier, what
would you say are for you in your perspective,
the most compelling argument?
I focus a lot on factory farming, uh, and
I, I, I, I think that's one of the,
one of the central arguments in part because It
creates so much suffering. And in part because there
are ways not to have to do it. Now,
I want to be careful here, right? Because I
don't want people thinking, well, Todd says if we
just in factory farming tomorrow. Everything's going to be
great. It won't be great. There's a reason that
factory farming continues to exist, which is that it
produces cheap meat. And there are a lot of
people who have who have difficulty affording To, to
be able to buy meat that's humanely raised. So,
what happens is if you cut factory farming up
tomorrow, uh, without any sort of support for people
who are marginalized or impoverished, what you're going to
get is hunger. Uh, AND so what really needs
to be done, it seems to me, are the,
uh, and a gradual elimination of factory farming on
the one hand. With policies that support people who
are marginalized and impoverished so that they can have
an adequate diet. Now, having said that, let me
just say that regardless of what you did with
factory farming, that we ought to be supporting people
so that everyone has access to an adequate and
healthful diet. But if we are If we're going
to intervene on factory farming, it seems to me
that that's a necessary policy element. It's got to
go alongside of it, uh, in order to make
sure that the elimination of factory farming isn't something
that just causes mass hunger.
Mhm. But uh earlier you talked a lot about
how we harm other animals, how we harm the
climate and the planet more generally, but we, we
should also consider here how we harm other fellow
humans,
right? Yes, uh, uh. We could get into a
whole discussion of social media here, couldn't we? Um,
I, I nodded to that in the book. Uh,
WHEN I was talking, uh, with the editor, uh,
at Crown Press, we're going over the book, uh,
he, he raised this question, and I said, I,
I don't want to, I, I want to focus
too much on this question for a couple of
reasons. One, it's its own issue. Uh, AND second,
but if I were to argue that because of
the harm that we do to our fellow human
beings, we should go extinct. It's a very short
step. To the position that in fact human lives
are not worth living. Right. And, and I, I
don't believe that. So, I don't want to argue
that humans, that, that human and human cruelty and
suffering is such that we should, uh, that it
forms an argument for going extinct, right? I mean,
there are plenty of arguments, good arguments about why
we shouldn't do it. But I don't think it
itself stands as an argument for going extinct. Mhm.
And what do you make of ideas like long-termism?
Um, NOT keen on it. Of the Well, first
off, right, long-termism is a development of effective altruism,
right, uh, which I'm also not keen on. Uh,
THERE are a number of difficulties with effective altruism.
Other people have discussed it better than I. Let
me just mention briefly, uh, Larry, the philosopher Larry
Tempkin's book, I think it's Being good in a
World of Need. Uh, Temkin was himself, uh, a
proponent of effective altruism, and he began to rethink
it. Uh, AND as he rethought it, he realized
there's all kinds of problems with it. Uh, JUST
to mention a couple, right. Effective altruism involves giving
to organizations that themselves will will give often to
third world countries. Uh, THAT involves questions of how
efficient the organization is also the question of how,
how the giving goes, because in a lot of
these countries that you, you would be contributing to,
you have to contribute through the, we said the
good graces, I suppose, of the government, which means
it's gonna skim off some. Uh, AND it may
not be supporting its population in the first place.
Right. So, two things are happening. One is you
may be supporting a regime that itself is problematic,
and second, right, you may be supporting a regime
that then feels as though it doesn't need to
take responsibility for its own population, because someone else
is doing. So, effective altruism has any number of
problems. All that long term, long-termism does. Is it
complicates that, right? Because what it says is that
that the people who exist, who are going to
exist in the future, are so numerous. That they
swap the number of people who currently exist. And
therefore, right, we should have much more concern for
the people that we have, that are going to
appear in the future and less concern for the
people that exists now, right? And That's got several
problems. One is the problem, right, that it's just
human centered, right? It's not looking at our fellow
creatures. Uh, SO it's got all of the issues
that I bring up in the book, right. But
second, right, uh, there are philosophers who have shown
that that this can lead to some very counterintuitive
results. So, for instance, if you've got a, a
possibly disastrous Uh, event in the future, say an
asteroid, uh, that could hit the planet, but it
has a very, very small chance of happening. And
yet, that small chance of happening, right, multiplied by
the, the damage it would cause would mean you
ought to put a lot of resources to that,
rather than, right, putting resources toward say, ending impoverishment
now or creating better. Uh, CREATING better policies, better
foreign policy, things like that. So, what long-termism does,
it seems to me, is it takes all of
the problems that effective altruism has, and then just
adds a few of its own. Mhm.
So one last question then, what is your own
conclusion? I mean, do you think we should go
extinct or not?
I don't know. Here, here's the thing, Ricardo. Um,
My I wrote the book to put the question
out, right, for it to further a conversation, right?
Uh, IT, when I see it discussed, it seems
to me that it doesn't get discussed in a
nuanced way. People take one side or they take
the other side, and they cling to it without
ever really looking at nuances and trying to consider,
but seriously, how we should think about this. And
I see the book as a contribution to that.
However, right, it seems to be an initial contribution,
and I think there are others who can add
to this, and, and frankly, Ricardo, others who are
just brighter than I am, right, who are going
to be able to think about this in ways
that that are deeper than I can, right? And
add to that conversation and bring in considerations that
I would have brought in had I thought of
them. Uh, AND so, I'm, what I'm hoping is
that, is that this doesn't start a conversation, conversations
are already happening, right, but that it adds something
to the conversation and opens up ways of thinking
that will allow us to, uh, uh, let me
put this way, that will allow us to think
about this more deeply and allow people who are,
who are deeper thinkers than I am to be
able to engage in it. That's on the one
side. But on the other side, right, the point
of the book was not simply to answer the
question, which ultimately I give consideration so and don't
give us a straight yes or no, but ultimately
to motivate us to think about what we do,
to think about how justified we are here, and
to think about what we can do to make
ourselves either more justified or merely more nearly justified.
And so, The point of the book isn't simply
to say, OK, here's the two sides and uh
good luck and Godspeed, right? Right. The point of
the book is to raise that, to put it
on the table, further that conversation, but also to
point out that this, the mere fact that this
is a live issue, means we really should be
thinking about what we're on about and what we
can do to make our existence more justifiable.
Great. So the book is again, Should we go
extinct, a philosophical dilemma for our unbearable times. I'm
leaving a link to it in the description of
the interview. Uh, AND Todd, just before we go,
would you like to tell people where they can
find you and your work on the internet?
Ah, so I do have a website. Uh, SO
as a baby boomer, Ricardo, right? I, uh, it's,
it's all I can do to get on the
computer. But uh the, the website is ToddmeyPhilosopher.com, right?
Uh, AND I can be reached through there. I
also teach at Warren Wilson College and uh I
have, I have email there. Uh, SO, yeah, there
are, there are ways to reach me, uh, and,
uh, to express your approval, disapproval questions or uh
people who can help me think more deeply about
this than I have already thought.
Great. So thank you so much for the great
talk. It's been a great pleasure to have you
on the show.
Thank you, Ricardo. It's been a pleasure and an
honor to be here.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Nights Learning and
Development done differently, check their website at Nights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters
Pergo Larsson, Jerry Mullerns, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyche Olaf,
Alex Adam Castle, Matthew Whitting Barno, Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Erika Lenny, John Connors, Philip Fors Connolly. Then the
Matri Robert Windegaruyasi Zu Mark Nes called Holbrookfield governor
Michael Stormir Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnunseroro and Hal
Herzognun Macha Joan Lays and the Samuel Corriere, Heinz,
Mark Smith, Jore, Tom Hummel, Sardus Fran David Sloan
Wilson, Asila dearraujoro and Roach Diego Londono Correa. Yannick
Punteran Rosmani Charlotte blinikol Barbara Adamhn Pavlostaevskynaleb medicine, Gary
Galman Samov Zaledrianei Poltonin John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward
Hall Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franca Bartolotti Gabrielon Scorte
or Slelisky, Scott Zachary Fish Tim Duffyani Smith John
Wieman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georgianneau, Luke Lovai
Giorgio Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Vozin, David Williams, the
Augusta, Anton Eriksson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez,
Coralli Chevalier, bungalow atheists, Larry D. Lee Junior, Old
Heringbo. Sterry Michael Bailey, then Sperber, Robert Grassy Zigoren,
Jeff McMahon, Jake Zu, Barnabas radix, Mark Campbell, Thomas
Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Stor, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin Galbert,
Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendon, Nicholas Carlsson, Ismael Bensleyman. George
Eoriatis, Valentin Steinman, Perkrolis, Kate van Goller, Alexander Aubert,
Liam Dunaway, BR Masoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular John Nertner,
Ursula Gudinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsoff Sean Nelson, Mike
Levine, and Jos Net. A special thanks to my
producers. These are Webb, Jim, Frank Lucas Steffinik, Tom
Venneden, Bernard Curtis Dixon, Benedict Muller, Thomas Trumbull, Catherine
and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegroal Ni Cortiz and
Nick Golden, and to my executive producers Matthew Levender,
Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanivets, and Rosie. Thank you for
all.